Now let us write a program for finding a maximum element in an Array. that is the largest element in an
Array.
So already I have an Array with me with some elements some from that I have to find out maximum.
I will do it once more just watch it how we do, what is our  procedure if you observe this procedure
then you can convert it into a program.
Observe it.first is 4, then 8, oh 8 is
greater than four, so eight
then the 9,  9 is greater than 8 na.
That is greater.
Yes 9.
This is smaller then leave it,
This is smaller then this is also smaller then leave it
So what are the last number 9.
So we should remember what is the largest right now with us.
Let's go on comparing with all the elements.
This is a simple procedure.
Let us do it.
I have the list of elements here.
Let us do the same thing here.
I will do it.
So initially first element  you leave it because Max is four the maximum element that you want to find out
is four now let us do that with that one, 8.
Is it a greater than four?.
Yes.
So change it to 8 then 6.
Is it greater than max.
No.
Don't change it, is it greater than Max.
Yes.
So change it to nine, then five.
Is it greater than nine.
No.
2 Is it to get to the max 9.
7.
Is it better than Max.
no leave it.
So what is the last value that is updated in Max that is 9.
So that's it.
So you need some value that you have to remember which is the maximum.
So initially you'll make it as 4 so maximum is what? four. initially it is 4, then you will see that 8
is greater then 4, so change it. then 6 is not greater let it be eight only, then 9 is greater than 8.
So change it.  5 is not greater than 9.
Let it be 9 only, 2 is not greater,let it be 9 only. 7 is not greater, let it be nine only.
So this is how you can maintain the value of Max that will give us the back maximum element.
So what we were doing here.
We were checking that if A[i] is greater than maximum then change Max to A[i], this is
the procedure we are storing that A[i] in Max.
So we have to scans all the elements and every time check with the max.
So initially Max will have the first value.
So basically we should start from the second value onwards from here.
That is index 1 onwards.
So these are the repeating steps.
Let us write a program for that one. already I have an Array and n for the number of elements.
Then I should have a max. And here,
The first step what I will do is Max assign A of 0 that is 0th element I have taken, that is I said this element
will take it, 4 we will take it now.
Next I have to go on checking thi is a repeating process so this I can do it in the for loop repeating
procedure. for I assign one onwards, I said we will start comparing from here if it start from zero
also nothing will happen right because 4 is not a greater than Four, nothing will happen, then i is less
than 7 then i plus plus.
Then while scanning through an array one by one what  I have to do, check the that one.
If A of I is greater than Max, change Max to A[i] right that's all. this is the
only thing that really we will be doing inside the for loop then afterwards print maximum element is, right
maximum number is
the value that we got in Max. that's it and then returns zero, you know that well.
So this is the program for finding maximum.
So for this actually we have prepared this table and observed it's working.
And based on the working we have written the program code right.
So if you are a beginner if you are learning how to write programs then this type of work is very important
for you.
If you tried to directly jump here and tried to write something and expect correct results.
You may not get it.
You should get the correct result on paper.
You should know what you are writing.
right, what you are writing.
So if you do some paperwork that will tell you whether your steps are perfect or not.
Then you can do this one and one more interesting thing.
If this is the program in front of you want to know how this program works then this board you can see this
you can say tracing of a program.
So first we have done a tracing then from there we write the program this is the right method.
If you have not written the program, it is somebody else program somebody else has written it.
Then you can understand it how it is working by making a table like this.
So that's all there is a coding available for finding the maximum number so you finish
that exercise and that you have to write down few statements not everything.
And one more thing.
The demo is also available, watch that demo.
Write the program by yourself.
So before watching demo, write the program by yourself. on your P.C.
or  your laptop.
If you get any errors any problem then you can check the demo and remove any errors.
No I don't think you will get any errors.
Everything is there on board.
So just copy this and write it
By yourself.
That's all.
So we'll see more programs on this.